if you have credit card debt you are far
from alone
more than half of americans are
currently carrying around some form of
credit card debt and if you're part of
that majority or just want to put some
preventative measures in place
i have four simple changes that can help
you work towards becoming debt-free
[Music]
number one prioritize your payments and
prioritize them in the right way
so let's say you have two cards one with
a 200
balance and the other with a thousand
dollar balance which one do you pay off
first
well if you're like most people when
people have debt across multiple credit
cards they tend to pay off the one with
a lower balance first
because it feels like an easy win it
feels good
we call this the completion bias when
you give in to completion bias you feel
more productive
because you're able to check off quick
tasks from your to-do list
and you might even get a rush of
dopamine while you're doing it but
rather than looking at the balance two
hundred dollars versus a thousand
dollars what you should be looking at is
the interest rate instead if you're busy
paying off a credit card with a low
interest while the larger interest rate
card lingers on and on
you could be in debt for much much
longer you can still work the completion
bias to your advantage
here's a quick tip think of that one
thousand dollar debt
as a series of smaller achievable tasks
for instance you could decide to pay 100
towards that credit card balance each
month and each time you pay
that 100 you're crossing something off
your to-do list
and achieving that completion high
you'll not only get that completion high
but you'll have something to celebrate
number two
call your credit card company and ask
them to lower your interest rate
get somebody on the phone typically when
you apply for a credit card
it's either when you're young or you
lack liquidity and in both instances
your credit score is lower your credit
score is what lenders and banks and
credit card companies use
to determine how much of a risk it would
be to lend you money now the higher the
credit score the lower the risk and the
lower the interest rate
conversely the lower the credit score
the higher your interest rate and the
more money you'll have to pay in
interest in the long run
over time with on-time payments your
credit score improves
but guess what sometimes your credit
card companies don't lower your interest
rate as a result
but what we do know is that if you call
oftentimes credit card companies will
loosen up on their interest rates
given your credit score improvement we
only have a small sample
but in my research we invited people to
come in
call their credit card company and make
the case for a lower interest rate
50 percent of them were successful this
is a simple way
of having a 50 50 shot to save yourself
thousands of dollars on interest
now while you have them on the phone
here's tip number three
request a change in your payment date
the payment due date is usually a random
date that the credit card companies set
that doesn't align with your cash flow
now i want you to think about
when you typically get paid and what
time of the month you usually have the
most cash on hand
based on that pick a payment date that
works best
for you i've seen that it's easier for
people to pay down their debt
when they have more money in their bank
account so if you have credit card debt
choose a new payment date that falls
after your usual payday so if you
typically get paid on the 15th
the 16th might be a great day here's my
last tip
number four fundamentally change how
often you pay your credit card
so for example if you usually pay a
hundred dollars a month towards your
credit card debt there are 12 months in
a year
so in a year you'll pay 1200 good for
you
but if you decide to spread that 100 a
month payment
into weekly payments of 25 you'll end up
paying more in the long run
because there are 52 weeks in a year
that means you'll end up paying 1300
instead of 1200 you will also end up
paying less
on interest it's a natural calendar hack
that you can work to your benefit
and there are even companies that can
help you do this automatically
these changes may seem small and subtle
but you'll be pleasantly surprised by
the huge difference they'll make
whether you're overcoming debt or just
trying to avoid it all together i'll see
you next episode with some more tips
your future self will thank you